 # Defining the Digital Humanities
 
The digital humanities are a source of much discussion, controversy and confusion within humanities departments. While the tools and ideas present within the digital humanities are several decades old, they are receiving much more attention in recent years due to their increase in popularity and the rise of open source software and technology. It is difficult to get to the heart of what the digital humanities are and why there is such heated debate over their validity within academia. Many modern commentators offer answers to that question and the main point of contention seems to revolve around the availability and sharing of cultural information that had previously been kept in the few. Digital humanities are perceived as a threat to literary studies because they encourage sharing and free access to information and publishing.

One of the major arguments against the digital humanities involves the sanctity of printed works and their availability. In his article criticizing the digital humanities, Stephen Marche asserts that the digitalization of texts and their wide distribution is akin to disbinding them, and that "Cutting open the book is literally a return to the forms and modes of paganism" [@marche2014]. He also compares the spread of the humanities via technology to the invention of the printing press and the subsequent "early scribal resistance to print" [@marche2014], referring to the scribes that held the proverbial keys to the kingdom on literacy. This argument is common and underscores the core issue here; academics and scholars, previously gatekeepers to culture, are less necessary now that information is readily available.

But what about the digital humanities enables the spread of culture? It stems from the fact that it is now easier than ever to find, create and distribute literature and humanities works. Matthew Kirschenbaum sums this aspect of the subject up perfectly by describing the MLA convention in which attendees tweeted the happenings of the conference, thus providing a running commentary and updates in real time [@kirschenbaum2010]. Mark Sample also analyzes the digital humanities and argues that they are about sharing and communication. Sample writes, "We should no longer be content to make our work public achingly slowly along ingrained routes, authors and readers alike delayed by innumerable gateways limiting knowledge production and sharing" [@sample2011]. In addition to a new openness in a typically reserved profession, the rise of single source publishing has played a key role in the production and distribution of texts. Single source publishing is the creation of a single text using a specific text format that can then be transformed to multiple formats using that same original text. Lawyer Ian Sullivan describes in his article "Innovation in Practice" how his law office prepares Supreme Court briefs using single source publishing tools available for free online. This is a key example of professional publishing and document preparation can now be done for free and is accessible to everyone. The availability of such software and the ability to share texts so easily in many formats is an example of the digital humanities is a discipline of sharing and collaboration.

While there are several criticisms of the digital humanities that are valid, such as the debate over the true essence of the discipline, the most invective arguments against them seem reactionary and targeted at the new availability of information. Humanities are no longer confined to libraries or bookstores, but the internet. Digital scholarship and techniques allow even major law firms to produce their own custom texts and share them easily. This places sharing and the flow of information at the heart of the digital humanities and regardless of the power they take away from scholars and academics, it also empowers them to explore the humanities with new ease and efficiency.

# References